[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: This
is a subject I love--
our connection to
our beloved pets.
Tammy Billups is
a pet medium who
has written an award-winning
book on our soul contracts
with our pets, and now one on
how our pets can help heal us
and we can help heal their
wounded parts as well.
I can't help but think of my
little wounded terrier, Ernie,
in this subject,
and I'm sure you're
going to find your little
doggie or cat somewhere
in this story too.
So let's go to Tammy.
Tammy, I'm so happy
to have you here.
I love, love, love this topic.
>> TAMMY BILLUPS:
Thank you so much.
I love it too.
I never tire of it.
>> REGINA: Well, let's get into
your background and how you
ended up doing this
because people,
how did she end up talking to
animals and connecting with them
telepathically and so forth?
So let's get into
your background a bit.
>> BILLUPS: OK.
Well, it wasn't part
of my plan to do this.
You've probably
heard that before.
I began working
with people more.
I took a four-year
certification to learn
how to help people heal
their emotional wounds
through the energy fields.
And I was maybe in the
first year of doing that.
And animals had always
been a big blessing to me.
I like many people,
had a lot of trauma
in the past where animals
were safer to let in.
And so I always had
animals close to me.
And I wondered, I wonder if
this stuff works with animals.
And so it was
interesting because I
began asking my friends,
can I work on your animals
and just see if I can see
what's happening in their energy
fields?
And when I did that,
the fascinating thing
was that I would look
into their energy field
and see a clear pattern.
There are certain
characteristics or the way
that the energy flows for
certain emotional wounds that
are predictable.
And so I would see,
perhaps, that the animal
had an abandonment wound
in their energy field.
And then I would
ponder their person.
And guess what?
Their person had the
same emotional wound
that was unhealed.
And I found that fascinating.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Now as you're saying
this, everybody
think about your pets and
their wounds they bring
and how you mirror them because
I'm doing that as we're talking.
But I have a couple
of questions.
So you must have been very open
and empathetic to begin with.
>> BILLUPS: Yes.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
So you're an empath.
So when you looked in their
field at their wounds,
did it show up
similarly too how that
would show up in a human field?
>> BILLUPS: It did.
And I'm not sure if that
was just for ease of me
recognizing it.
>> REGINA: Yeah, it'll
present how it needs
to for your recognition.
>> BILLUPS: Correct.
Correct.
But yes, it was very much there.
And I started noticing that
there were behaviors that
were the same between them.
There were certain differences
between how people might show up
with abandonment or
an animal, but it
is predictable
for different ways
that their behaviors
are going to be
or they're going to
talk a lot or they're
going to what, depending on
what their emotional wound is.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
Yeah.
As I'm kind of searching
through two in my own mind,
I'm thinking, wow, I
must be schizophrenic
because of the variety
of dogs [LAUGHS]
that I've brought to me.
But it's interesting that
the female dogs I've had,
I got from puppyhood.
And they were perfect.
They were just kind of
perfect little dogs.
They didn't have any issues.
Confident.
You could even do
fireworks on 4th of July.
Didn't bother them any.
The males were the wounded ones
that had, had trauma when I got
them.
Wow, what a difference
in the two types of dogs.
But it was nice to be surrounded
by both kinds of energy,
but your heart just pours out to
the ones who have been wounded.
>> BILLUPS: Of
course, of course.
So it must have been where you
were on your emotional journey
as well, that you were open to
receiving that in a new way,
maybe doing some deeper
work at that time.
>> REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
I mean, and I bring it
up because everybody's
thinking they might even
be pausing for a second.
Yeah, what about that
dog I had back then?
And now in your case, it's cat.
So let's get into the notion,
was there one particular pet
that you had along the way that
just you knew when you met them,
this being was here for you
and you were here for them.
You knew you had a soul
connection, even before you
understood all of this.
>> BILLUPS: Oh, yeah, it
definitely happened before.
That's what really changed
my life, because we weren't
really allowed
to-- as a child, I
wasn't allowed to have animals.
I'm not one of those
animal people that says,
I lived on a farm and I was
talking to animals early.
That was not the case.
They weren't
allowed in my house.
They were dirty and
in my mom's mind.
So when I got into my career
that I traveled a bunch
in my 20s, I started
wanting an animal,
and a cat seemed to be the
perfect choice for traveling.
>> REGINA: Yeah,
not as codependent.
>> BILLUPS: Correct.
And so when I got this
kitten, Kahlua, who I
found on the side of the road.
She was a splotchy little--
I named her Kahlua, because
it looked like someone
had spilt some on her.
And she looked at me in a
way that no one had ever
looked at me before and it
still brings up emotion today.
>> REGINA: I understand.
>> BILLUPS: And you don't
realize that you've never heard
or felt unconditional love until
you feel it for the first time.
And animals are so extraordinary
in that they bring that
to humans that have had a
lot of trauma in their past.
She changed me.
She rocked me at my core
because I had felt that.
I didn't know that I
could love in that way.
They were my safety net.
And they always will be.
It's a different
relationship now, of course,
that I'm on a conscious journey
than the relationship I have
with my animals
in my 20s and 30s,
which were much
more codependent.
>> REGINA: Sure.
What it really does is
that in the human world,
love tends to be so conditional.
It shouldn't be, but
in the end, it is.
And part of the
way you understand
that is by feeling the contrast
when it's not conditional.
The very ones that love us
unconditionally are the ones
that we outlive too.
And that, certainly for a lot of
people, is the biggest trauma--
one of the biggest
traumas in their life.
But yeah, and I had a dog named
Sugar Bear who was a Samoyed.
She was draped over a man's arm.
He was walking through
the parking lot
and he was carrying a
little free sign with him.
And I thought this can't be this
cute little floppy white puppy.
And she ended up being the
most unconditionally loving,
beautiful entity that I
had ever met in my life,
just like what
you're talking about.
And actually, because my
love for her was so deep,
I stayed in a not very good
human relationship for years.
>> BILLUPS: Oh, for the kids.
>> REGINA: Yeah, for the kids.
And I think people can really
understand that and relate
to it.
So let's go to now
how the soul contract
part of it, because that's
another book you've written
before we start going
into the reflective
mirrored healing parts.
>> BILLUPS: So that
we do have these,
our souls line up agreements
between us and our animals.
These things are preconceived.
Sometimes we'll reincarnate.
The same animals were
incarnate with us several times
because we're so familiar
with them, which is amazing.
We'll recognize them
just like with people.
And so we will embark
upon these agreements
that we have with animals to
help us grow, learn, heal,
evolve, depending on
what we're needing
on our evolutionary journey.
And animals will help us
direct ourselves in the journey
that we want to evolve to.
They're evolving
as well, of course,
but we really line up
these things in advance.
>> REGINA: Give me some examples
of what you've seen with some
of your clients in
terms of soul contracts?
I love these stories,
because we always
think that we're in control.
And, well, I think
it's time to get a cat
and that's the end of the story.
So you're going to go
somewhere and find a cute cat.
But let's talk about
what's really going on.
>> BILLUPS: Right.
People think they're
just getting this pet
and they're just going to
have this unconditional love
and they're going to be able
to go on walks with them
and, oh, they're
helping them exercise.
But there's a lot more
going on under the surface
and at a soul level
for your growth.
And the more open
you are to that,
then the more soul
contracts are going
to start revealing themselves.
The higher purpose
of your arrangement
as to why you came together
to learn and grow together.
It's truly extraordinary
what animals
are willing to do with us.
>> REGINA: So tell us a
couple of examples of people
and their pets you've read
what they thought was happening
versus what was
actually happening.
>> BILLUPS: Well, I'll start
with something more simplistic.
Early when I started
working with animals a bit,
and like so much
of the time, people
will call and want
to fix their animal.
My animal is doing this, will
you help them stop doing this?
Tell them I don't want
them to jump on the sofa.
Can you fix them?
And I remember one
call in particular
of a woman who just called
and she said, I have this dog
and he's jumping and he's
jumping and he's jumping
and he's jumping and I can't
get him to stop jumping.
And I just don't know
what to do and she's
going on and on and on.
And her voice is jumping
and jumping and jumping.
And I started working with the
dog and the dog immediately
calmed and got
grounded and was fine.
But her energy didn't change.
She stayed in this
very ungrounded state
where she was very
jumpy herself.
And so then she called a
week later and she goes,
well, it didn't stick.
And I said, well, how can
we look at this differently?
How about, do you meditate?
Well, I'm open to meditate.
Well, can you meditate
together maybe?
And when you go walking,
can you more intentionally
see yourself grounding
because your dog is picking up
on everything that you're doing.
And that little leash is a
little energetic umbilical
cord between the two of you.
So she said, I'll try.
And she began trying that.
And then I didn't hear
from her for a long time.
And sometimes that's good
news and sometimes not.
But six months later, I started
getting a lot of referrals
from her.
And she said that
was the ticket.
And that's when I realized that
when the person is on board,
that's when the animal
change and that's when
it's more sustainable.
That's when it's
going to stick what
you're wanting for your animal.
Same with the ailments.
And so much of the
time, Regina, I
see people become aware of
a conscious journey because
of something that they're
doing for their animal.
They may not be aware yet.
They may not be on
a conscious journey.
But then in order
to fix their animal,
they tried an
animal communicator.
They tried herbs.
They tried things that started
to open their minds to something
different.
And because of that, the
animal said, yeah, high five.
She's doing it now
or he's doing it now.
And they started learning
about consciousness
and what they could
do for themselves.
But when they begin a
conscious journey together,
that's when it gets juicy.
That's why I love
doing what I do.
>> REGINA: Oh, I can imagine
what gratifying work.
Well, let's talk
about maybe a story
of abandonment, because
I look at people
are picking their dogs up at
the pound or at SPCA oftentimes.
So you know that there
might be issues there.
>> BILLUPS: Yeah, so abandonment
is one of those issues where,
of course, it's easy to
recognize within the animal
because a lot of times, they've
been adopted and returned,
adopted and returned.
Maybe they have
separation anxiety.
Maybe they're overeating.
They use oral fixations,
carry around a toy,
over lick, all kinds of things
that are really predictable.
Sometimes the person's
not quite as aware
of their heavy abandonment
wounds until they get together.
And regardless of whether or
not the animal has abandonment
before you adopt them, if
you're the one they land with,
I promise you you've got
abandonment wounding.
I remember there was a gentleman
named Rick that called me
about Sammy, and his
primary motive in calling
was you need to fix Sammy.
He's way too needy.
I can't leave the farm.
He's running after the truck.
I can't go anywhere.
Can you fix Sammy?
And I said, OK, so let's focus
on Sammy's abandonment wound.
But I just want you to be
open to doing this with him.
Are you open to
a tandem session?
Yeah, I'm open to it.
He was very open and
conscious about it.
So he would lay down while
I do the session as well.
And they both began working
on their abandonment wound.
After the second
session, he said, well,
Sammy's not chasing
the truck anymore.
He goes, but you
know what I realized?
And I said, what?
And he said, every single
love relationship I've had,
these girlfriends get very
needy and very attached
and in the same way that
Sammy gets attached.
And I said, well,
isn't that interesting?
And he said, I think
I've got abandonment.
And I said, I think
you're onto something.
And then he said I want
to just work on me.
And a lot of times, that's
the way that it works.
>> REGINA: I mean,
this is so wonderful
because you're
qualified to do both.
>> BILLUPS: Yes.
Yeah.
So they go in tandem.
And so sometimes
these animals come
into our life to show
us this about ourselves.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
That's beautiful.
And you just said
something, when abandonment
has to do with
over-licking, for example,
and overeating because I'm
just thinking of a situation,
I'm going to
sprinkle-- this show,
I'm going to totally take
advantage of the time to bring
in my own anecdotes here.
>> BILLUPS: Bring it on.
>> REGINA: OK.
So little Ernie.
He had great emotional
difficulties.
He was about nine
months old, running
in a very busy
intersection in Phoenix.
Someone found him.
And my friend who does animal
rescue ended up with him.
And he wouldn't
let her touch him.
He was freaked out
just with his ears down
and eyes wide, hugging
the side of the sofa.
So I thought, oh goodness, I
just felt so sorry for him.
I met him and we
bonded instantly,
but he never bonded
with anyone else.
I was his bond, but I already
had a little dog named
Angel, little Bichon, who I
was driving through Malibu
and just happened to stop at a
cafe with a pet shop next door.
And she had a perfect life.
She was like 16 weeks
old, cute and happy
and fluffy, jumped in my lap.
Well, she was about, I'd say,
five years old when I got Ernie.
And it didn't occur to
me till you said that.
That's when she started
excessively licking her paws.
So in that case, because
Ernie was so needy,
she must have felt abandoned
because I think she did.
She started getting her
feelings hurt easily.
>> BILLUPS: Well, sometimes
licking can also be
a self-soothing or helping
others move out energy
in the house.
So if she was--
>> REGINA: She
was the first dog,
the one that had
no issues really.
She was just happy as can be.
>> BILLUPS: She sounds like
she's more of the older soul
of the two.
And a lot of times,
they will help
to soothe in some way
the other animals.
>> REGINA: So she has to soothe
herself by licking her paws.
>> BILLUPS: It might be a
way that she's moving out
the energy.
Yeah.
And yes, it could be
a little bit of that--
without intimately--
>> REGINA: Feeling abandoned.
>> BILLUPS: It could be that
as well that there's some type
of interaction with that.
But it sounds like
she was probably--
that she could
sense his anxiety.
And so she's helping
him move it out.
>> REGINA: OK.
Yeah.
A lot of anxiety.
Yes.
She was very sensitive.
>> BILLUPS: Yes.
And helping move out the energy.
>> REGINA: And he
was super intuitive.
You thought it.
He already knew.
You had to really be careful
what you thought of around him
if you thought, OK, we're
going to have a bath today,
he'd already be hiding
if I thought it.
>> BILLUPS: Yes.
They get the
visuals in our mind.
>> REGINA: Oh, yeah,
they're picking all that up.
>> BILLUPS: They do.
>> REGINA: Oh, my God,
it's so fascinating.
So now this gets to
another question then.
So you might have
a cat in the house
and then maybe you decide to
get a little puppy as well.
Are there soul contracts
between the other animals too?
>> BILLUPS: Yeah, definitely,
they know each other sometimes
and they've been
together before.
Sometimes they have some karma
to work out amongst each other.
And yes, I write about that
in Animal Soul Contracts
where they do come in knowing.
There are people who will
call and they'll say,
I'm thinking about
getting this animal.
Do they have any stuff together?
Does my animal-- my dog now
have any stuff with that?
And sometimes I'll see a little
angst between their higher
selves where it's
going to be difficult
for them to be together, because
last time, it wasn't so great.
And maybe something
really bad happened
at the end from one of
them towards the other.
And so they'll remember that
just like we do at a soul level,
and sometimes
they'll work it out.
Just like us, they come
together to heal together.
They're looking to evolve.
They're looking to resolve
their past wounding
this life or past life.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
Well, in Angel's case,
Angel lived to be 15.
Ernie died young.
He had so many emotional wounds.
And I think I get it why.
But she died the same day as
my father, both unexpectedly.
It happened very quickly
with both of them
and I always wondered.
I think it was almost
like a gift of freedom,
like she left at the same
time because life was
going to change or something.
>> BILLUPS: Did they
have a relationship?
>> REGINA: They didn't.
I took her to see--
she was in the car
when I went to see my dad, and
things weren't right that day.
His mind was all over and I
didn't know what was going on.
So I just said goodbye to
him and told him no worries.
And she had a seizure
right after that in the car
and I thought, oh my
God, what's going on?
And they both died the next day.
>> BILLUPS: Wow.
>> REGINA: Just like that.
>> BILLUPS: That would have
to be something with you
and the changes--
>> REGINA: It had to do.
And I'm bringing
every example up
because so many
people watching have
been through so
many of these things
and I'm just trying to put--
>> BILLUPS: I lost all three
of my animals at the same time
right after my mother.
Big life changes.
Same with my father.
I lost my two
animals afterwards.
>> REGINA: So they're in
relationship with that,
where they're ready to maybe--
I thought--
>> BILLUPS: We're ready.
>> REGINA: We are and they are
ready to free us because we
might need the
freedom on some level.
>> BILLUPS: We've learned.
We've gotten what they came
into our life to learn.
Soul contracts are complete.
We're shifting into a new
level, a higher octave,
whatever it is, it's complete.
And we're in the--
I see that often where
there are multiple passings
and it's difficult to
go through those times.
>> REGINA: Oh, my God.
>> BILLUPS: So difficult when
there are multiple passings like
that, but they are the
most transformational.
>> REGINA: And
were your animals--
it wasn't like there was
one that was sick and gave
the disease.
They were individually--
>> BILLUPS: Yeah, right after
my big awakening came through
the death of my mother.
And then that kitty Kahlua-- my
first kitty was my big awakening
in that two weeks after my
mother passed, I'd had--
my mom was talking about
people on the other side coming
to greet her.
She was having
those conversations.
That was all new to me.
It sent me on this whole journey
of there's this other world
on the other side.
And then Kahlua, all of a
sudden, when she passed,
my mother hated cats.
I just thought, who's
going to greet her?
And I asked spirit to
bring Kahlua back to me.
And guess what?
All of a sudden that evening, I
turn off the light, turn over,
she's always jump on
my head, come around.
And I felt something
jump up on the bed,
walk around and wait
for me to lift her up.
I'm like, oh, my God.
I turn on the light,
there's no Kahlua.
That started my journey.
All of a sudden, I could
see into other dimensions--
I could see her.
She's back with
me now as roomy--
as kitty roomy.
So different now,
but same kitty.
But yeah, these animals
have been springboards.
>> REGINA: Yes.
OK.
So you had multiple contracts
with her in this lifetime.
>> BILLUPS: Yes.
And then she passed
right afterwards.
>> REGINA: Wow.
Interesting.
>> BILLUPS: Right.
After mom did.
And the other two
passed right away
at 11, 8, and 6 years of age.
They brought me into
this new journey.
It was so difficult, but they
did what they had come to do.
>> REGINA: It's so beautiful.
I think Sugar Bear, the one I
talked about, she came back very
quickly as another Alaskan breed
and my ex-- he was my ex by now
and we had a son.
He said, this dog sure
does feel like Sugar Bear.
She does the same thing, rescue.
When she's lying down,
it's in the same position.
So I went and said, Sugar Bear.
And she was like this and
answered and turned around
and ran toward me.
And she stayed with them because
she was to be there for my son,
because he was back and forth
with the custody arrangement.
And she was there to stabilize
him at his dad's house.
It was so beautiful.
And to this day, he'll get
teared up if he hears about me.
So yeah.
>> BILLUPS: I love that.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
So let's talk about
Mary Bucholtz.
I love this story.
Caring for Creatures--
Animal Sanctuary.
Yeah, let's talk about her
story with her rescue cats.
That was pretty phenomenal.
>> BILLUPS: Oh, with
the ones where--
OK, because I have her in
there a couple of times.
>> REGINA: Yeah, the UTI.
>> BILLUPS: Yes.
So Mary, when she first started
her rescue organization,
some of the animals would be
in her house at that point.
So her house was on
the sanctuary grounds.
But before they
were building all
of the buildings for all the
rescues, a lot of the animals
were in the house.
And there was one
morning long ago when
Mary got up in the morning
and she felt awful.
I mean, really sick.
And she said, I went
to the restroom.
I knew I had a really
bad UTI and the kitties
were all-- all the
rescued kitties were
meowing for their breakfast.
And she went to--
she said, it's just got to wait.
She was that ill.
And she laid back down on
the bed and she fell asleep.
And when she woke up,
she looked and there were
six cats on the bed
with their bottoms
up against three
on each side just--
>> REGINA: Right against on
her lower part of her body.
>> BILLUPS: Right against her.
And she said, what?
Because these were
cats that didn't
commingle together and certainly
didn't come up on the bed
together.
And as soon as she sat up,
she realized she had no pain.
All the symptoms
were completely gone.
And we know this about animals.
We know they're
extraordinary healers.
We hear about these
things all the time,
but I really want people
to realize how much they're
doing this for us, and to
maybe slip into a Lao mode,
to allow it and find
gratitude for it.
>> REGINA: Oh, my God, yes.
OK.
I'm going to flip
things a little bit.
So if you are--
say if you have
issues of abandonment
and then you bring in
a little animal that
has issues of abandonment, some
people might flip it and ask,
well, if I bring in an animal
that has the same issues I have,
isn't that essentially
instantiating the same issues
in music going deeper?
>> BILLUPS: Well, sure, that's
what you want at a soul level.
That's what we want.
>> REGINA: So it could get
better before it gets worse.
>> BILLUPS: Yes, or get
worse before it gets better.
Yes, absolutely.
We're magnets for that.
At a soul level, we're
calling in beings
that are going to help us
get to the root of what
we're wanting to heal.
So of course, we're going to
call in animals that sometimes
are the agitators,
and we're going
to call in the ones that
are looking at us like we're
golden because we're trying to
believe that about ourselves.
So yes, we're going
to call that in.
Yes, when two
people come in they
have abandonment wounds, when
you're on a conscious journey,
you can say, let's
heal this together.
It's a bit different then.
>> REGINA: Yes, yes.
OK.
So now we're talking about
the emotional wounds here.
And one of the things that
you write about in the book
is that the same
beliefs we have,
the most common simple
beliefs that we carry often
throughout incarnations are the
same beliefs the animals carry,
which is statements such
as I'm bad, I'm not enough,
and I'm unlovable.
So when they come to
us, they may very well
be carrying these
exact same beliefs,
except beliefs I think, work
differently in the animal world.
They embody it more.
>> BILLUPS: It's a bit more.
Plus they're amplified
usually within them for us
until we get it and we
start consciously working
on our wound.
And then they can usually
heal much faster, much faster,
depending on, of course, every
soul is wired a bit differently.
But they will-- yes, I call them
emotional wound soul contracts.
And for those of us
that get emotionally
close to our animals, which
are millions of people who
turn to animals because they are
safer, well, at a soul level,
we're always seeking growth.
It's medicine for the soul.
So yes, domesticated animals
are on the front line
of the animal kingdom's mission
to help humanity to embrace
consciousness in a new level.
>> REGINA: Yeah, domestic
pets, absolutely.
>> BILLUPS: Yes.
In a way that we wouldn't
have-- millions of people
would not have ways to
continue their growth
if it wasn't for the
safety of animals
to be able to help us do this.
And healing our emotional wounds
is a big part of why we're here.
When we do that, we
are moving forward.
We are raising consciousness.
So yes, these animals
are going to come in.
If you've been betrayed, they're
probably going to have betrayal.
Usually how people describe
their animals as they're
describing a bit of themselves.
My animals are very
stubborn, and he
wants to do what he wants
to do and he wants to do it.
And it's like, great,
that might mirror you.
Well, yeah, I kind
of am that way.
So they're probably
here together
to heal that particular wound
and soften the effects of it.
>> REGINA: OK.
So you have a little
bit of typology in here,
which people enjoy, which is the
five types of emotional wounds
in your pets--
your cats and dogs,
and you might even say parrots
and birds as well, I don't know.
And I will bring Ernie
into the conversation
again because the first
one is the scared one--
terror.
>> BILLUPS: Yeah.
The scared ones are
those people and animals
who have certainly experienced
a lot of terror in past lives
and in this life-- torture
really, and usually begins
with two-leggeds anyway,
as early as the birth canal
and being in the
womb of maybe they
were a birth that wasn't wanted,
maybe even tried to abort.
A lot of times, they don't
bring all of their soul energy
in because they say, oh no,
no, I remember this now.
I don't think I want to do this.
I think I'm going to try to
go back to the other side.
And that can happen with animals
as well at the hands of people,
especially.
They have experienced a lot.
And so the scared ones come in
wanting to feel safe in a body
again, wanting to
heal the terror.
And those are when we
know where they are.
And in fact, one of your
animals you mentioned--
>> REGINA: Ernest.
>> BILLUPS: Yeah.
he probably had a lot of
terror in his background
that he wanted to
overcome by being here.
And sometimes they will
set up circumstances
for that to do it together.
>> REGINA: Interesting
because, like I said,
he bonded with me and I
could do anything with him.
I could bathe him,
whatever needed to be done.
As long as it was me.
But he wouldn't let
anyone else close to him.
>> BILLUPS: Yeah.
And that can be because
they feel unsafe.
And so clearly, you established
this great bond with him.
You had a contract
to help him to heal.
>> REGINA: It was instant.
He literally let me touch him.
>> BILLUPS: Yeah.
In a way that nobody else could.
So clearly, that's
going to be helping him.
And it's helping you.
You might have been clearing
some karma with him.
You might have--
>> REGINA: Yeah,
the birth canal.
The whole birth
thing, I did not.
I definitely came
kicking and screaming
and came frank breech,
very long labor.
But first, didn't want to.
At the last minute, no, no, no,
I don't want to do this one.
So there was that.
Yeah, sure.
>> BILLUPS: And we're all going
to relate a little bit to each
of the patterns.
But some are going
to be two to three
that we're really going
to feel as real for us.
And those are the animals that
are going to mirror that for us.
>> REGINA: That's
the scared one.
Then there's the needy one.
Again, we're
talking abandonment.
>> BILLUPS: Abandonment, yes.
And this usually starts in
the oral developmental phase
about that time when
the mother is trying to,
you're trying to suckle on the
mother's teat for the animals.
And for some reason,
you don't get enough
or you don't have that
spiritual connection.
And of course, with big litters,
with animals, as it happens,
sometimes the mother
passes, sometimes
the mother rejects them.
I mean, there's
all kinds of things
that can happen with animals.
With people, we know
those things as well.
Sometimes the mother
isn't able to nurse.
Sometimes there's
some type of the baby
isn't able to digest the
milk for whatever reason.
And they don't get enough.
Sometimes the mother is working.
None of it's wrong.
Of course, we all came into
to heal these things together.
And there's past life of famine,
starvation, all kinds of things
that you come forth with if you
have any type of abandonment
wounds to heal.
And again, you're going to be
coming together to heal that.
And you're going to,
as always, you're
going to adapt coping
mechanisms that
help you do that
with oral fixations,
with the oral developmental
phase abandonment.
You're going to be looking
external to get filled
because you don't know how
to fill yourself because you
weren't filled fully at a time
when you needed to know that,
oh, I'm sustained here.
I can actually
withdraw from the teat,
and I know that I have enough.
And so when you don't get that
feeling, everything is external.
I'm seeking to be
filled externally.
And I'm not going to have
enough time, enough money,
enough food, enough whatever.
There's not enough syndrome.
Same for the animal.
Not enough food.
You're going to
know it until you
start to satiate within and
begin to really look at,
how do I fill this up?
How do I satiate myself
in ways that I want.
And usually, of course,
that starts with love.
And releasing the emotions.
That is kind of mad about
that I didn't get that right
or whatever emotions
there are that need
to come up to clear so that we
can begin implementing the newer
ways and putting the reparenting
in place that's needed.
>> REGINA: OK,
the sensitive one.
>> BILLUPS: Sensitive one.
These first three
that I mentioned,
these are the ones
that are really
attracted to animals for
filling that feels safer
to be around animals more so.
The next two, next two,
of course, as well.
But these three really turn to
animals because they're safer.
Invasiveness is what's
behind the sensitive ones.
So these are people that were
criticized, had a lot of trauma
as well.
Different.
With the scared ones.
It's more of physical trauma.
If there's sexual abuse,
it's very traumatic.
With the sensitive
ones, it's covert.
It was the father
who touched you.
You couldn't say anything.
It was manipulative
or it was just an
over controlling parent,
or maybe even teasing
from a parent or a brother or a
sibling in some way, a cousin,
some type of abuse.
And then with animals,
a lot of times
they're over-controlled
by the people
that they first get there where
they're so over controlled
and it feels invasive.
>> REGINA: Or in a
chain, stop that.
>> BILLUPS: Right.
Or in a very small space,
maybe they're kept in a crate.
But they're
over-controlled a lot
and they're going to be
magnets to each other.
These are people who are very--
and animals, very empathetic
because they have no boundaries,
because they were
over-controlled,
people came into
their boundaries.
So they're feeling everything
and they're very sensitive,
become fabulous healers, I might
add, because they are intuitive.
But these are the
animals that a lot
of times they want
to be under the bed,
not like the scared ones.
They want to be in
a really safe place,
but the sensitive
ones are just--
let me observe this
from afar, because I
know everything about everybody
who's walking in this house.
And I'm going to let
you know who's good
and who's not, because
they can read their energy.
And the same with people.
These are people who go
into social situations.
They're feeling everything.
They can get very
overwhelmed by that.
And these sensitive
animals are teaching
them to take time for
themselves, that it's
OK to be wired differently.
That they can-- I don't have
to be social all the time.
I need to replenish my energy.
I need to go take some
meditation time to refuel.
And that's OK.
>> REGINA: This is, I think,
very helpful for people.
Then we have the protector.
>> BILLUPS: Yes, protector.
The fire energy of all.
The fire energy.
And we know and hear
these animals and people
way in advance.
They're righting the
wrongs of the world.
They're going to
tell you who's wrong.
>> REGINA: Oh, my God,
I have one of those.
>> BILLUPS: Oh, did you?
>> REGINA: Oh, yeah.
Finbar, the old sailor man.
>> BILLUPS: Yes.
But these are the fire
energy people on animals.
And they're the doers.
They're the masculine energy
out of any of the patterns.
And so these are the ones that,
of course, are more reactive.
These are the biters with
a lot of the animals--
and the people, not literally.
But they are the ones
that are the protectors
and the invasiveness wounds
that are coming together
as pairs because they're
going after the invasiveness
and the invasiveness are trying
to learn their boundaries so
that they say enough to the
ones that are the protectors.
And a lot of times,
protective animals
are in the life of
an invasive person
to provide protection
for that part was never
protected within you, because
a lot of times, I'll say, well,
does the animal react just
when they're with you?
Yes, no one else but me.
They don't do it
with anyone else.
Well, they're protecting a part
of you that was never protected.
There's the growth.
>> REGINA: Well, yeah.
Finbar, oh, my gosh.
A friend of mine had him.
She was a prominent in the
town, had a little magazine,
and people had to
go over to her place
to work out their
editorial stuff,
and they'd be greeted at
the door with this beast.
He was this large
Australian shepherd mix.
And he would jump up at
the door and everyone
was like this, like,
could you please stop him
so I can come in?
And she was very aggressive
and she bit and he bit.
>> BILLUPS: And was there a
person that was mirroring them
that was stronger?
>> REGINA: Just like that.
And so, ultimately, she had to
move and no one would take him--
the sucker.
Everyone knows me.
And she said, well, Regina,
he's such a good boy really.
And I thought, really?
So, of course, I
go over to the--
I'm so stupid.
I go over to the house.
He comes and sits at my feet.
Rolls his head back on
my knees and stares at me
with these big puppy eyes.
And he's like, I was
totally in and conned
from the first minute.
And he was a total
gentleman with me.
But what turned out
when the people would
come to deliver
something in particular,
it appeared he'd rush out the
door before we could catch him.
We thought he was
trying to bite them.
He was trying to hurt
them-- it turned out.
He was getting
their sleeve, trying
to get them to come
back to the house.
So very complex
character, anyway.
>> BILLUPS: Well,
with those protectors,
they're covering up
their heart energy
because they're protecting it.
>> REGINA: She was
such a big heart.
I mean, I've had so much
wonderful, big hearted energy
from dogs, no matter
how damaged they appear.
And the last one
is the perfect one.
The perfectionism.
>> BILLUPS: Yes.
As in perfectionism.
And this is more that
detachment of the true self.
And with people,
and usually, they're
brought up in
families where there's
another perfectionistic
parent in some way, that's
teaching them to focus more
on external appearances,
on material gains, on how
they can show up in the--
every profile is about the
learned progress of how
they feel safe in the world.
That's what's underneath it.
And how the perfect
one feels safe--
it's by appearing perfect.
And these are the people
that when they're fully
immersed in it,
of course, we have
a little bit of each of them.
These are the persons
that always look perfect,
their lawns look perfect,
their houses are perfect.
And they over-control.
>> REGINA: Controls
are all paid on time.
Refrigerator's
stocked and lined up.
>> BILLUPS: They're
at the gym at 6:00 AM.
Yes, they make it all look easy.
And they bring a lot of
envy from others, actually,
as well from people who maybe--
>> REGINA: Like us, whose
lives are a little messier.
>> BILLUPS: Right.
Yeah.
A lot of heart protection
around these animals and people
as well.
But once these two people--
the people and the animal,
I should say, come together
and on a conscious journey,
they're a dynamic duo.
And they are serving
the world in ways
that no other pairing can,
because they are grounded, they
begin to have more of an
open heart versus always
being in the mind, always
trying to figure things out.
They're beginning
to feel things out
as they begin to heal
on a conscious journey.
And these animals are a
little bit more detached.
They're not the warm and
fuzzy abandonment who say,
I'll take the attention
from everyone.
These animals are
more holding what
I call transformational
healing presence,
and that's where they
can walk in the room
and everybody feels better.
Everyone feels better.
But they aren't looking.
They aren't going
to be on your lap.
to be licking you.
They're holding-- and horses do
this really well all the time.
They hold this sacred
presence for others.
And the people as
well, when they really
begin to heal behind
the perfectionism
and begin to open their heart
more to the experiences,
then they show up in this
sacred, beautiful work
that is undeniable
for how many masses
they can reach because these
are people and animals who
don't mind being seen.
They're in the nursing homes.
They're approaching others.
They're guides.
>> REGINA: That's beautiful.
We only have a
minute or two left.
So I would like to
ask to, you'd like
to talk about the albatross.
Let's just finish on the
story of the albatross.
>> BILLUPS: Oh,
the albatross, yes.
The albatross, I was
definitely drawn.
As I was writing
the book, I started
reading more about the
journey of the albatross.
And they can fly.
I forget how much it is.
I think it's like
42,000 miles a year.
And they begin in
this one little place,
wherever they're born.
And they make these
trips around the world.
And I began thinking, oh, my
gosh, what are their journeys?
What are their stories?
What they might have seen.
They can actually sleep
while they're flying.
>> REGINA: Oh, my gosh.
What amazing trait.
>> BILLUPS: And so what's
the wonderful thing about
the albatross is
that once they land,
they don't sit around and say,
I'm not going to do that again.
I'm not going to
take that journey.
That hurricane I had to
go around was too much.
They pack up their
bags and they take off
on another journey
around the world again.
They don't sit and
do what we do and say
I need to be in this safe place.
They trust that they have
an inner compass within them
to guide them.
And I believe that that's
what animals teach us,
that we have the beautiful
inner compass within us
to guide all of our journeys
and our partnerships with them.
>> REGINA: I love that
and that's beautiful.
Any final little quick
thought before we say goodbye?
>> BILLUPS: Well, I'd
like to say one thing,
in that when you have an
animal that's looking at you,
like you're golden, and
they open your heart
and they're looking at you and
saying you are the best thing
since sliced bread, you
would best honor them.
If you look in the mirror
and you believe them,
just believe them because that's
why they came in your life.
They don't want to hold
your golden energy for you.
Believe that you are what
your animal sees in you.
>> REGINA: Oh, that's beautiful.
Tammy, thank you so much.
I've enjoyed every
moment of this talk.
>> BILLUPS: Thank you so much.
I have as well.
>> REGINA: Tammy's new book is
called Your Animal Your Soul
Mirror.
I love this topic,
as you can tell.
And I hope you've
enjoyed the conversation
and see yourself in it as
well, and also your pets.
You can go to Tammy's
site at tammybillups.com
and learn much more about your
connection with your pets.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.
[THEME MUSIC]